doc: User documentation for GEE AI features + new specific AI menu (#447)
gatling/gatling.io-doc: content/ai-for-analysis/ai-run-comparison/index.md

---
title: AI Run Comparison
description: Get an AI-generated analysis of the differences across 2 to 5 selected runs.
lead: AI Run Comparison analyzes the runs you select and produces a structured report covering what changed, what regressed, and where to look next with a verdict on overall consistency, confidence level, key findings, and concrete recommendations to act on before your next run.
date: 2026-06-19T12:00:00+00:00
---

## Overview

> The Run Comparison page lets you overlay metrics across 2 to 5 runs of the same test. It's useful for spotting differences. but reading the chart still requires knowing what to look for.

Reviewer: > It's useful for spotting differences. but reading

Weird `.` in the middle

> The Run Comparison page lets you overlay metrics across 2 to 5 runs of the same test. It's useful for spotting differences. but reading the chart still requires knowing what to look for.

Reviewer: Isn't it a self deprecating take ? We're basically saying that the comparison feature is not great 😅 

Maybe we should turn this like "the comparison is great, but the AI comparison takes you even further 🚀". More LinkedIn compatible, but I don't know if this is what we want.

**AI Run Comparison** adds an AI-generated report alongside the chart. Select your runs, request the analysis, and get a structured breakdown of what changed, what regressed, and where to investigate, without having to manually cross-reference every metric.

> {{< arcade id="vw2t8jZLKjw8BX6W1vUg" title="Introducing MCP Server" >}}

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what's an arcade (a kind of interactive tutorial framework ?), but I'm pretty sure the title should be changed ? :)

Author: Yes, it's an interactive démo. I changed the ID and missed the title. Thank you!

 
**Recommendations** opens with a one-sentence focus for your investigation, followed by 2 to 4 concrete actions to take before the next run.
 
**Explore in the chart** opens with a one-sentence summary of what to look at, followed by a precise starting point, which metrics to select and which run pairs to compare in the chart below.
 
The report also includes a **verdict** and a **confidence level** tags. The verdict summarizes the overall relationship between the runs in a single word (`Similar`, `SomeDiscrepancies`, or `Divergent`). The confidence level (`Low`, `Medium`, or `High`) reflects how much signal was available. A low confidence may indicate that a run was stopped early or that data was insufficient to draw firm conclusions.

{{< img src="ai-run-comparison-details.png" alt="Example of generated AI run comparison" >}}

## Notes

- AI Run Comparison is only available when the AI feature is enabled for your organization.

> - If report generation fails, it cannot be retried from the UI in the current version.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could offer the user a way out, like "contact the support" ?

> - Previously generated reports can be retrieved by selecting the same set of runs again.

Reviewer: Since this is not really a "search for existing one" feature, maybe present it as a sort of cache ?
```suggestion
- Selecting a set of runs retrieves the previously generated report if you already asked for it in order to save you some time.
```

> - Reports are persisted server-side. Selecting the same set of runs again will return the existing report rather than generating a new one.

Reviewer 2: Not sure this implementation details is relevant here. Maybe something like "you can retrieve your analyses by selecting the same set of runs"

Author: I like yours better. I'll change that, thank you.

 
**Recommendations** opens with a one-sentence focus for your investigation, followed by 2 to 4 concrete actions to take before the next run.
 
**Explore in the chart** opens with a one-sentence summary of what to look at, followed by a precise starting point, which metrics to select and which run pairs to compare in the chart below.
 
The report also includes a **verdict** and a **confidence level** tags. The verdict summarizes the overall relationship between the runs in a single word (`Similar`, `SomeDiscrepancies`, or `Divergent`). The confidence level (`Low`, `Medium`, or `High`) reflects how much signal was available. A low confidence may indicate that a run was stopped early or that data was insufficient to draw firm conclusions.

{{< img src="ai-run-comparison-details.png" alt="Example of generated AI run comparison" >}}

## Notes

- Select the same set of runs again to retrieve a previously generated report.
- AI Run Comparison is only available when the AI feature is enabled for your organization.
- If report generation fails, it cannot be retried from the UI in the current version. Please contact the support.

{{<  alert info >}}

> AI-generated insights are provided for informational purposes only."AI-generated insights are provided for informational purposes only. Always verify results before making decisions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AI-generated insights are provided for informational purposes only. Always verify results before making decisions.
```
